>>RICHARD DOLAN: I'm Richard
Dolan, and this is False Flags.
Even after all these years,
when most people think of evil,
in all likelihood, they
think of Hitler and the Nazis
as the epitome of evil, so much
so that you could consider it
a cliche.
But the Nazis made it easy.
Of course, it didn't
help when they
decided it was a great idea
to conquer all of Europe.
But the real thing about
them is that while, yes,
many other societies and people
engaged in horrible destruction
and death, the Nazi
party of Germany
was just so brutal and
generally so explicit
about what they
were doing and doing
things on such a grand scale,
that we are justifiably
horrified by them.
They were even pretty upfront
about their willingness
to deceive others.
Indeed, on what they felt was
their necessity to deceive.
Hermann Goring was
one of the most
notorious of the Nazi leaders.
For most of the time
of the Third Reich,
he was the number two man in
all of Germany next to Hitler.
>>NARRATOR: Allied armies
had taken into custody men
like Hermann Goring,
Luftwaffe chief
and right-hand man of Adolph
Hitler since the earliest
Nazi years.
>>DOLAN: A cruel,
power hungry man,
he was remarkably candid
after the war ended,
while in custody at the
Nuremberg trials in 1946.
He even talked
about false flags.
In perhaps his most
infamous remark, he said,
quote, naturally, the common
people don't want war,
but after all, it is the
leaders of a country who
determine the policy, and
it is always a simple matter
to drag the people
along, whether it
is a democracy or a
fascist dictatorship
or a parliament or a
communist dictatorship.
Voice or no voice,
the people can always
be brought to the
bidding of the leaders.
That is easy.
All you have to
do is to tell them
they are being attacked and
denounce the pacifists for lack
of patriotism and exposing
the country to danger.
It works the same
in every country.
ROBERT H. JACKSON:
The principles
of the authoritarian government,
which you set up required,
as I understand you, that there
be tolerated no opposition
political parties,
which might defeat
or obstruct the policy
of the Nazi party.
>>DOLAN: Well, Goring's cynicism
was matched by Joseph Goebbels,
one of the most
fanatic of all Nazis
and who ran Nazi Germany's
Ministry of Propaganda.
Yes, it was called that,
which, when you think about it,
is not the best public
relations move you can imagine.
Goebbels however,
was very advanced
when it came to
public manipulation.
He had a simple approach,
simple but very effective.
Lie repeatedly.
Just lie and keep lying.
He often said that a lie
told once is only a lie,
but if you tell it 1,000
times, it becomes the truth.
And even more famously,
he said, quote,
"if you tell the same lie enough
times, people will believe it
and the bigger the lie,
the better," end quote.
We often think of Nazi
propaganda as simple and crude,
which it surely was, but that
did not make it ineffective.
Goebbels worked
on the assumption
that most people are
simple creatures.
Primitive was the word he used.
And therefore, he
said, propaganda
had to be simple and repetitive.
Among the repulsive
qualities of these Nazis,
it's the explicit
racism that stands out,
specifically the demonization
of the Jewish people,
as well as many other
categories the Nazis described
as subhuman--
Slavic peoples, gypsies,
people of color,
and well, anyone not categorized
as Aryan, that is Germanic.
We all know this, but what's
important for our purposes
is how the demonization of
non-Germans, and specifically
of the Jews, qualifies
as a form of false flag.
Let's call it a soft false
flag, akin to the Inquisition
of earlier centuries, in which
a message was hammered home
over and over to
the German people,
that all the problems in society
were because of the Jews.
It's important to see why
this idea could be successful.
Germany, after the
First World War,
was a nation lying
flat on its back.
They had just lost the
war, millions of dead,
and they had been
humiliated by what they felt
was an unfair peace treaty.
They couldn't understand.
How did this happen?
It didn't make sense to them.
On top of that, during the
1920s came economic problems,
including run away
inflation and then the Great
Depression of the early 1930s.
And there was more than
enough misery to go around.
Who was responsible?
Hitler had his answer--
the Jews.
The demonization of
the Jews, of course,
is very well known
to history but what
we might want to
remind ourselves
of is how profitable it
was to certain groups,
especially those thieves
in the Nazi party
who stole Jewish
property and ran them out
of positions of prominence
that they could then
assume themselves.
A blatant struggle
for power and wealth
that was also
useful for cementing
power of the ruling party.
Of course, none
of that would have
worked without a campaign
of intimidation and terror,
which the Nazis
implemented in abundance.
>>NARRATOR: Louder and
far more terrifying
than the growls of Mussolini
were the calculated threats
of the man, who
for six long years,
had been the specter haunting
Europe's uneasy peace.
>>DOLAN: The
demonization of the Jews
was truly a false flag
served to the public.
A fake problem was created.
The Jews stabbed Germany in the
back and lost the Great War.
A constant campaign
of demonization
was continued, all
with the intention
of making the Jews an
object of fear and loathing.
A solution was proposed
and implemented.
Eliminate the Jews.
And the real benefit
to the perpetrators
was to steal Jewish wealth
and cement their position
in the power structure.
This was accomplished through
a combination of terror
over the population and control
over all forms of information.
Goebbels, Goring,
and of course, Hitler
himself, these men all
sought total control
over German intellectual
and cultural life.
Goebbels had total
control over what
was printed in German
books and newspapers, what
was said over German
radio, and what
was allowed to be expressed
in German movies, the arts,
public meetings, and rallies.
Opposing viewpoints were
censored or eliminated
from all media.
But perhaps I'm getting
ahead of myself.
How did the Nazis even
get to do all of this?
Let's take a look at
the infamous Reichstag
fire of 1933.
>>NARRATOR: Hans
Gisevius, a witness
who formerly held a high
position in the Berlin police
administration tells of his
investigation of the Reichstag
fire.
First of all, he ascertained
that quite generally, Hitler
had stated the wish for
a large-scale propaganda
campaign.
Goebbels took on the job of
making the necessary proposals,
and it was Goebbels who
first thought of setting
the Reichstag on fire.
>>DOLAN: After its defeat at
the end of the First World War,
Germany's old imperial
government led by the Kaiser
was gone, and a new form of
government, new for Germany,
anyway, came into being--
a republic.
Many Germans welcomed
the new situation.
Sure, they had lost
the war, but there
was a freedom in 1920s
Germany that many found
like a breath of fresh air.
People could say what they
wanted, dress how they wanted,
live the kind of life that they
wanted to a much greater degree
than they could in the past.
Of course, some Germans
hated the new system
and associated it not only with
the loss of the First World War
but with everything that was
wrong with modern, decadent
civilization.
In this context, the
Nazis led the charge.
But not many people
paid attention to them
until the Great
Depression started in 1929
to spread panic
in Germany and put
millions of people out of work.
In such an extreme setting,
more and more people
were drawn to extreme
answers, and suddenly, Hitler
found himself in the
national spotlight.
Then, on January
30th, 1933, he was
selected to be Chancellor,
that is, essentially,
Prime Minister of Germany.
>>NARRATOR: Adolph
Hitler, leader
of a German national movement
is made Chancellor of Germany,
and Berlin goes wild in
celebration of his victory.
Torch lights parade
light the Berlin night
as backers commemorate
his victory
by marching through the streets
and through the Brandenburg
Gate.
>>DOLAN: I'll just
emphasize that he was not
elected but selected by
Germany's President Paul Von
Hindenburg, the senile old
general from World War I,
because Hitler was the
leader of then the largest
party in Germany.
Germany, in 1933, was still a
democratic society with laws
respecting human rights.
So how did things go so wrong?
Well, less than a month
later, on February 27th, 1933,
and just one week before
general elections,
the German Reichstag
was set on fire.
This was the home of
Germany's Parliament.
Hitler immediately announced
that communist terrorists
were responsible.
His right-hand
man, Hermann Goring
claimed to have secret
evidence proving
that the communists did it
and said that he would soon
make this evidence public.
>>NARRATOR: It was
expected from Goring
and he gave his assurances
that he would do so,
that the police
would be instructed,
while still
suffering from shock,
to take up a false trail.
>>DOLAN: Hitler then
convinced Hindenburg
to sign the Reichstag Decree.
This decree, using defense
against terrorism as an excuse,
suspended just about every
major civil liberty that existed
in Germany's Constitution.
Habeas corpus,
which is the right
to know why you're
being put in jail--
this was taken away.
Freedom of the press, gone.
Freedom to organize
and assemble, gone.
The Reichstag Decree even
allowed the government
to spy on its own citizens'
personal mail and telephone
conversations without a warrant.
All of this broke the back
of Germany's free society.
So what about the fire?
Well, the only thing
historians seem to agree on
is that Marinus Van der Lubbe
a former Dutch communist
and mentally disturbed
arsonist hungry for fame,
was found inside the building.
After being tortured
by the Gestapo,
he confessed to
starting the fire
but always said he acted alone.
Goring didn't believe him,
or wouldn't believe him,
and ordered the arrest
of several leading
communists in Germany.
Well, that came to nothing
since the courts found
zero evidence against any
of the other communists,
and they were acquitted.
Van der Lubbe, on the other
hand, was a different story.
He was not apparently
very intelligent,
and he also had a great
desire for attention.
Once he persuaded
the German press
that he was going to swim
across the English Channel.
He actually went to
the coast, greased up
and ready to go, with
photographers and reporters
there.
He went out for a few
yards and swam right back,
saying the currents
weren't favorable.
Another time, following a
strike at his workplace,
Van der Lubbe offered to
accept full responsibility
and take any punishment as long
as no one else was punished.
His employers clearly
did not believe
he had any major
involvement in the strike.
So his behavior at the trial
was described as bizarre.
In a fascinating book on mind
control by Dutch psychiatrist,
A. M. Meerloo, Van der
Lubbe showed all the signs
of extreme coercion
while in custody.
He had previously been a patient
in a Dutch mental institution
and was known by
psychiatrists there
to be upbeat, alert, although
with moods that would change
on a dime and with
all kinds of fantasies
about changing the world.
But during the court
sessions, Van der Lubbe
only answered questions
with a yes or no.
He seemed dull and apathetic.
Then, after more than
40 days of the trial,
his apathy suddenly disappeared.
He complained that the
trial was taking too long,
and he demanded his punishment,
either by imprisonment
or death.
He said he started
the fire as a cry
to rally the German workers
against fascist rule.
He talked about
his inner voices,
and then he fell
back into apathy.
The psychiatrist, Meerloo,
writing about this,
stated that such
behavior is often
found in cases of
extreme mental coercion.
Van der Lubbe was
convicted and executed.
A number of people
right away suspected
the Nazis of being behind this.
Indeed, Goring himself
was widely suspected.
A man named [INAUDIBLE],,
the Berlin correspondent
for a major Vienna
newspaper, reported
on the night of the fire,
quote, "there can scarcely
be any doubt that the fire which
is now destroying the Reichstag
was set by henchmen of
the Hitler government."
By all appearances,
the arsonists
used an underground passage
connecting the Reichstag
to the palace of its
president, Hermann Goring.
Goring himself is said to
have admitted to the deed.
This is according to German
general Franz Halder, who
stated in an
affidavit that Goring
bragged about setting the fire
in a conversation in 1943.
During conversation about
the Reichstag building,
Halder said he heard
Goring say loudly,
the only one who really knows
about the Reichstag building
is I, for I set fire to it.
In saying this, he
slapped his thigh.
For the record, Goring denied
this at the Nuremberg trials
in 1946.
>>NARRATOR: Using
the Reichstag fire
as a pretext for seizing
power, the Nazi conspirators
lost no time in tearing Germany
away from a policy of peace.
>>DOLAN: Many other
researchers and historians
agree that Goring was involved
but also added the name
of another man, Karl Ernst.
Ernst was the Berlin
leader of the stormtroopers
known as the SA.
These were Hitler's brownshirts.
The journalist
William L. Shirer,
in his classic book from 1964,
"The Rise and Fall of the Third
Reich," also mentioned
the underground passage
between the Reichstag
in Goring's residence.
Through this tunnel,
he wrote, Ernst
led a small detachment
of stormtroopers,
where they scattered
gasoline and incendiaries
and then got out quickly.
We also have a
statement uncovered
after years of obscurity
and publicized in 2001.
Several German historians
went through over 50,000 pages
of previously
unexamined documents
from former East German
and Soviet archives,
and they also concluded that
the fire was a Nazi plot.
They base their
case on remarks they
found by Adolf Rawl, a thief
and a Nazi stormtrooper.
Rawl was serving a
sentence in a jail
but told prosecutors the exact
same story about Karl Ernst
and the stormtroopers
starting the fire.
A bit of new information
from this research
was that Ernst gave
his men a reason
they needed to do
the fire, which
was that an excuse was needed
to go after the communists.
Unfortunately for
Rawl, a stormtrooper
working in the jail
learned of his statement
and tipped off his comrades.
They then arranged
for Rawl's statements
to be destroyed by accomplices
in the prosecutor's office
and for Rawl himself
to be murdered.
And he was, indeed,
murdered in November 1933.
Apparently a lot of people
suspected Karl Ernst
of some sort of involvement.
He was once asked about
any connection he had,
and he said, quote, if I said,
yes, I'd be a bloody fool.
If I said, no, I'd
be a bloody liar.
Despite all of this, seemingly,
a number of academic historians
maintain that Van der
Lubbe really did act alone
and that the Nazis
simply were happy to use
his foolishness
as an opportunity
to crack down on society.
They maintain that there
is no definitive proof
that the Nazis did it.
Evidently with some matches
and a hope and a dream,
Van der Lubbe started a very
impressive fire all alone.
Well, I think I beg to differ.
By the way, Hitler
and all the top Nazis
were in Berlin on
the night of the fire
and fairly close to the
building, despite the fact
that this was just one week
before a national election
in which they were all involved.
It's also interesting that
Goring had his arrest lists
already prepared when he arrived
on the scene of the fire.
And on the very next day,
Hitler had his emergency decree
already drafted and ready
for Hindenburg's signature.
The problem with
the Reichstag fire
is what we get from
many false flag events.
Even today, more
than 80 years later,
there is no full agreement
on who was behind it.
With enough testimony pointing
in the direction of the Nazis
and certainly with the
motivation and immediate roll
out of a solution,
we are certainly
seeing the false flag profile.
There was one, and only one,
beneficiary of the Reichstag
fire and that is the
Nazis themselves,
and primarily Hitler himself.
This cemented their grip on
power, which of course, they
held ruthlessly for
the next 12 years.
But the fact that
after all these years
there's still speculation
about the Reichstag fire
tells us something
very important.
Like any good false
flag, those responsible
knew how to cover their tracks.
There will probably
never be absolute proof.
Well, welcome to the
world of covert ops.
In any case, most of the German
people in a state of shock
could not conceive that
their own government
could have done such a thing.
In fact, many of them were
supportive of the Nazi measures
that effectively killed
the republic they
lived in and replaced
with a dictatorship.
They were safe from terrorists,
and that's all that mattered.
And if they didn't feel
that way, most of them
were smart enough not
to speak up too loudly.
>>NARRATOR: Adolph Hitler had
seized control of a floundering
government in a time
of national crisis,
and because he promised
to restore prosperity
and national pride, he gained
the support of the people.
>>DOLAN: Now, I want to talk
about another Nazi false flag.
Unlike the Reichstag fire, about
which some historians still
argue, this one is not
a matter of debate.
The invasion of Poland--
probably the most
classic undisputed
false flag of the 20th century,
and the event that kicked off
the Second World War in Europe.
The Nazis, in the
1930s, were looking
to change the world, all right.
By 1939, Hitler had been
in power for six years.
He had achieved massive
foreign policy successes,
enlarging Germany
substantially to include
Austria and part
of Czechoslovakia,
all in the name of
lebensraum or living
space for the German people.
All of these victories
were won through diplomacy.
Not a shot was fired
to achieve them.
Now, by the summer of 1939,
Hitler was looking at Poland,
but he realized that
there was no way
he was going to take over that
country simply by diplomacy.
He would need an
excuse to invade it.
So an operation was developed
under the authority of Reinhard
Heydrich, one of the
most cold-blooded
of the Nazi killers and at one
point, the third most powerful
man in the Third Reich.
Heydrich though, was
simply the senior executive
of the operation.
It was really organized by a
Nazi named Alfred Naujocks, who
gave an affidavit about the
whole affair after the war.
What they planned to do
was to fabricate evidence
of a Polish attack
against Germany
to mobilize German
public opinion for war
and to justify war with Poland.
Before the operation
was to take place,
Hitler made sure he didn't
antagonize the great power
on the other side of
Poland, the Soviet Union.
So on August 23rd,
he and Soviet leader
Joseph Stalin
agreed to what they
called a non-aggression pact.
In reality, it was a mutual
aggression pact against Poland,
as we shall see.
The date Hitler originally
set for the invasion of Poland
was August 26th, 1939,
but that didn't happen.
The global diplomatic
situation was still
too much in flux
for Hitler's liking
and plans got pushed
back for a few days.
It turned out, however, that one
of the German undercover units
was not informed of the delay.
So on August 26th, they began
their part of the false flag
operation that Hitler would
use to justify the invasion.
This was carried out
by undercover agents,
including the SS, all
dressed in Polish uniforms.
They did a number of things.
They carried out an attack on
a German customs post in which
several Germans were killed.
They also stormed
various border buildings,
scared the locals
with wild shots,
carried out random acts of
vandalism, and then retreated.
One devious element was to
leave behind dead bodies
in Polish uniforms.
In reality, these
bodies were prisoners
from concentration camps.
They were dressed
in Polish uniforms,
killed by lethal injection,
then shot for appearance,
and then left behind.
Even though that event
happened on the wrong night,
it wasn't a disaster from an
operational point of view.
But then, on the night
of August 31st, 1939,
just before the
invasion was to begin,
the main false flag happened.
German covert operatives
went to a radio tower.
This was very close
to the Polish border,
near the Polish
town of Gleiwitz.
Then they seized
the radio station.
The station's music
program was interrupted
by frantic German
voices announcing
that Polish formations
were marching toward them.
Germany was being invaded
by Poland, so they said.
Then the transmission went
dead for a little while,
all very dramatic.
When it came back, Polish
voices got on the air,
calling for all
Poles in the area
to take up arms
and attack Germany.
More silence.
A few minutes later,
listeners heard the report
that German police opened
fire on the Polish terrorists.
Well, just like during
the Reichstag fire
from six years earlier,
Hitler was immediately
ready to pounce.
In his speech to
the Reichstag, he
used this pretext of
Polish aggression,
along with the border incidents
from a few days earlier
to justify what he
called a defensive action
against Poland.
>>NARRATOR: When Hitler
lashed out at Poland in 1939,
the German people followed
him into war without regrets.
This was the day
Germany had been
building for and waiting for.
And with larceny
in their hearts,
they gloried in the destruction
they were letting loose
upon the world.
>>DOLAN: By then, the
German tanks were already
rolling into Poland.
And by the way, radio stations
across much of Europe,
including the BBC,
picked up this story
and at least initially, treated
it like a legitimate piece,
that is, that Poland
had attacked Germany.
That didn't last long though.
The day after the
Gleiwitz incident,
there were American
correspondents
who were brought to the
scene but no neutral parties
were allowed to
investigate in detail.
As a result, journalists
from other countries
soon became skeptical of the
German version of the incident,
and soon, many people
and governments
began to disbelieve
the story altogether.
The governments of
Britain and France
didn't seem to believe it.
They declared war
against Germany two days
after the invasion.
>>NARRATOR: Prime Minister
Chamberlain of Great Britain
gave the Nazi dictator a zero
hour for withdrawing his troops
from Poland.
>>DOLAN: But in reality,
the international community
wasn't really the target
of the false flag,
the German public was.
The fake Polish attack
served as a pretext,
and it worked well
enough for its purpose,
and that's really
all Hitler wanted.
The German people,
even under Hitler,
had a hard time imagining that
their own government would
stoop to something
so devious and to lie
so blatantly to them.
And that's the thing about false
flags, most people are good.
Most people don't think in
terms of such deviousness
and treachery.
Thank goodness, right?
But that innate goodness
often blinds people
to the deceptions
foisted against them
by unscrupulous
people, who happen
to control the
means of propaganda
and all the other powerful
institutions of a society.
The theory of the
big lie does work.
You tell people
something long enough
and with enough conviction,
most folks will just go along.
Oh, it has to be
right, we think.
Well, no.
When we look at the elements
to study in false flags,
we see that both the Reichstag
fire and the invasion of Poland
fit the model with
virtual perfection.
Both were spectacular events
that received instant media
saturation.
Both cases were quickly
closed, officially,
that is, with
convenient scapegoats
to blame for both of them.
In both cases,
there was decisive
and immediate government
action taken as a response
to these alleged acts of
terrorism and aggression.
And both cases had
significant anomalies
that deviated from the
officially sanctioned
narrative, and both
clearly benefited
one and only one group--
the Nazi party and hierarchy.
>>NARRATOR: Only by such a
war and quick annihilation can
these fascist nations, whose
cash and resources are small,
hope to conquer.
>>DOLAN: On top
of that, when you
look at the band of
criminals that made up
the Nazi party, from the
grass root thugs right up
to the lying, sociopathic
leadership and their known
philosophies supporting
the necessity of deceiving
the public to
achieve their ends,
it's case closed
for both of them.
Hermann Goering may
well have been right
when he said the people
can always be brought
to the bidding of the leaders.
That is easy.
All you have to do is tell
them they're being attacked.
Well, it's a good
idea for all of us
to remember that in
our own day and age.
Join me next time
on False Flags, when
we look at how the Nazis
were not the only false flag
innovators of the 1930s.
The Japanese and Soviets
engaged in blatant acts
of deception and perfidy,
creating deadly false flags
to satisfy their greed.
Remember, reaching the
truth means stripping away
the illusions around us.
I'm Richard Dolan.